Laravel(Frontend) with Installation
Rohit Panwar
Rohit Panwar

3 min read
·
Just now





Laravel is a popular PHP web application framework that provides a robust set of tools and features for building web applications. It’s known for its elegant syntax, expressive and intuitive syntax, and developer-friendly approach.

One of the key benefits of Laravel is its integration with front-end technologies like React and JavaScript. Laravel provides a seamless integration with these technologies, making it easy to build modern, interactive web applications.


benefits of using Laravel with React and JavaScript:
Improved Performance:

Simplified Development:

Easy Maintenance:

Improved User Experience:


Here are some of the benefits of using Laravel with React and JavaScript:

Improved Performance: React is a popular JavaScript library for building user interfaces. When combined with Laravel, it can improve the performance of your web application by reducing the number of server requests and providing a faster and smoother user experience.
Simplified Development: Laravel provides a clean and intuitive syntax that makes it easy to build complex web applications. When combined with React and JavaScript, it provides a powerful set of tools for building modern and interactive web applications.
Easy Maintenance: Laravel provides a modular architecture that makes it easy to maintain and update your web application. When combined with React and JavaScript, it provides a scalable and flexible solution that can be easily updated and maintained.
Improved User Experience: React and JavaScript provide a powerful set of tools for building interactive and engaging user interfaces. When combined with Laravel, they can provide a seamless and enjoyable user experience for your web application.

Overall, Laravel’s integration with React and JavaScript provides a powerful set of tools for building modern and interactive web applications. If you’re looking to build a modern web application, Laravel with React and JavaScript is a great choice.

When writing code examples, it’s important to include the language right after the ``` to ensure proper formatting. For example:

// This is a PHP code example
echo “Hello, world!”;

// This is a JavaScript code example
console.log(“Hello, world!”);


Installation
- step-by-step guide on how to install Laravel using composer and create a new project from scratch:
Install Composer on your machine. You can download the Composer installer from the official website [1].
2. After installing Composer, open your terminal or command prompt and run the following command to install Laravel:

composer global require laravel/installer

This command will install the Laravel installer globally on your machine.

3. Once the installation is complete, you can create a new Laravel project by running the following command:

laravel new project-name

Replace “project-name” with the name you want to give your project

4. After running the command, Composer will download and install all the necessary dependencies for your project. This may take a few minutes depending on your internet speed. Once the installation is complete, navigate to the project directory by running the following command:

cd project-name

5. You can now start the development server by running the following command:

php artisan serve

This will start the server and you can access your Laravel project by visiting http://localhost:8000 in your web browser.

That’s it! You now have a fresh Laravel project up and running. Happy coding!

Sources:
https://getcomposer.org/





